Hello, you will now learn about
two major concepts
of preprocessing.
The first thing you'll learn
about is called stemming and
the second thing you will learn
about is called stop words,
and specifically you
will learn how to use
stemming and stop words
to preprocess your texts.
Let's take a look at
how you can do this.
Let's process this tweet.
First, I remove
all the words that
don't add significant
meaning to the tweets,
aka stop words and
punctuation marks.
In practice, you would have to
compare your tweet
against two lists.
One with stop words in
English and another
with punctuation.
These lists are
usually much larger,
but for the purpose
of this example,
they will do just fine.
Every word from the tweet
that also appears on
the list of stop words
should be eliminated.
So you'd have to
eliminate the word and,
the word are, the word a,
and the word at.
The tweet without stop
words looks like this.
Note that the overall meaning of
the sentence could be
inferred without any effort.
Now, let's eliminate
every punctuation mark.
In this example, there are
only exclamation points.
The tweet without stop words
and punctuation looks like this.
However, note that in
some contexts you won't have
to eliminate punctuation.
So you should think carefully
about whether punctuation adds
important information to your
specific NLP task or not.
Tweets and other types of texts
often have handles and URLs,
but these don't add any value for
the task of sentiment analysis.
Let's eliminate these two
handles and this URL.
At the end of this process,
the resulting tweets contains
all the important information
related to its sentiment.
Tuning GREAT AI model is clearly
a positive tweet and
a sufficiently good model
should be able to classify it.
Now that the tweet
from the example
has only the necessary
information,
I will perform stemming
for every word.
Stemming in NLP is simply
transforming any word
to its base stem,
which you could define as the
set of characters that are
used to construct the
word and its derivatives.
Let's take the first
word from the example.
Its stem is done,
because adding the letter e,
it forms the word tune.
Adding the suffix ed,
forms the word tuned,
and adding the suffix ing,
it forms the word tuning.
After you perform
stemming on your corpus,
the word tune, tuned,
and tuning will be
reduced to the stem tun.
So your vocabulary would
be significantly reduced
when you perform this process
for every word in the corpus.
To reduce your vocabulary even
further without losing
valuable information,
you'd have to lowercase
every one of your words.
So the word GREAT,
Great and great would be
treated as the same exact word.
This is the final preprocess
tweet as a list of words.
Now that you're familiar with
stemming and stop words,
you know the basics
of texts processing.
In the next video,
you can use your
process suite function
to extract a matrix x,
which represents all the
tweets in your data set.